NVIDIA-DCGM  integration docs (#15013)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/host-integrations-list/nvidia-dcgm-integration.mdx

---
title: NVIDIA DCGM integration
tags:
  - NVIDIA integration
  - DCGM integration
  - New Relic integrations
metaDescription: Use New Relic infrastructure agent to get a dashboard with DCGM metrics.
---
import infrastructureNVIDIADCGMDashboard from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-full_nvidia-dcgm-dashboard.webp'

> Our NVIDIA DCGM integration assists you in monitoring the status of GPUs. This integration leverages our infrastructure agent and the Prometheus remote write integration, which is seamlessly integrated with NVIDIA's SMI utility. It provides you with a pre-built dashboard containing crucial DCGM metrics, including GPU utilization, XID error counts, clock and performance states, temperature, power usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our NVIDIA DCGM integration assists you in monitoring the status of GPUs. This integration leverages our infrastructure agent and the Prometheus remote write integration, which is seamlessly integrated with NVIDIA's SMI utility. It provides you with a pre-built dashboard containing crucial DCGM metrics, including GPU utilization, XID error counts, clock and performance states, temperature, and power usage.
```

<figcaption>
After you set up our NVIDIA DCGM integration, we give you a dashboard for your DCGM metrics.
</figcaption>

## Install the infrastructure agent [#infra]

To get data into New Relic, install our infrastructure agent. Our infrastructure agent collects and ingests data so you can keep track of your DCGM performance.

You can install the infrastructure agent two different ways:

* Our [guided install](https://one.newrelic.com/nr1-core?state=4f81feab-35f7-e97e-9903-52510f8542bd) is a CLI tool that inspects your system and installs the infrastructure agent alongside the application monitoring agent that best works for your system. To learn more about how our guided install works, check out our [Guided install overview](/docs/infrastructure/host-integrations/installation/new-relic-guided-install-overview).
* If you'd rather install our infrastructure agent manually, you can follow a tutorial for manual installation for [Linux](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/linux-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-linux), [Windows](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/windows-installation/install-infrastructure-monitoring-agent-windows/).

> ## Configure DCGM-Exporter

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure the DCGM exporter
```

> 1. Clone the repository

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In your terminal, clone the `dcgm-exporter` repository:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

git clone https://github.com/NVIDIA/dcgm-exporter
```

> 2. Below command is used to open the `dcgm-exporter` directory present in the cloned repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the cloned repository, navigate to the `dcgm-exporter` directory:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

cd dcgm-exporter
```

> 3. Install necessary binaries using below commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Install necessary binaries:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

make binary
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

sudo make install
```

> 4. Start the dcgm-exporter using below command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Start the `dcgm-exporter`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

> dcgm-exporter &

Reviewer: @RamanaReddy8801 Just to confirm, the `&` is a part of the command?

Author: Yes, `&` is an essential element of the command.

```

> 5. Use the below command to see details of dcgm metrics 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. See the details of your DCGM metrics:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
```

curl localhost:9400/metrics
```

> ## NVIDIA-DCGM configuration on Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NVIDIA DCGM configuration on Prometheus
```

> ## NVIDIA-DCGM configuration on Prometheus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## NVIDIA-DCGM configuration on Prometheus [#configure-prometheus]
```

> To install Prometheus on a Linux system, you can follow these steps. Prometheus is a popular open-source monitoring and alerting tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prometheus is an open-source monitoring and alerting tool that can be used to monitor NVIDIA GPUs using the NVIDIA-DCGM exporter. To configure Prometheus to monitor DCGM metrics, follow these steps:
```

1. Visit the [Prometheus download page](https://prometheus.io/download/) to find the latest release.

> 2. Select the appropriate version for your operating system and architecture. For Linux, you'll likely choose the linux-amd64 version. Copy the download link for the tarball (.tar.gz file).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the appropriate version for your operating system and architecture. For Linux, you'll likely choose the linux-amd64 version. Copy the download link for the tarball (`.tar.gz` file).
```

> 3. Once downloaded Prometheus, untar the download tar file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Once Prometheus is downloaded, untar the download tar file:
```

```shell
tar -xvzf <filename.tar.gz>
```

> 4. Go to the Prometheus folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Navigate to the downloaded Prometheus folder:
```

```shell

> cd <download folder>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd /DOWNLOADED-FOLDER/
```

```

> 5. Open your `Prometheus.yml` file and add the following lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Open your `Prometheus.yml` file and add the following lines:
```

```yml
  ---
  scrape_configs:
    - job_name: NVIDI
      static_configs:
        - targets:['localhost:9400']
```

> 6. Start the Prometheus using the below command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Start Prometheus:
```

```shell
./prometheus --config.file=prometheus.yml
```

> ## Configure Prometheus remote write for NVIDIA DCGM

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure Prometheus remote write for NVIDIA-DCGM
```

1. Set up Prometheus monitoring. Prometheus metrics needs to be integrated with New Relic, you can use the Remote Write integration by following [Prometheus remote write setup launcher in the UI](https://one.newrelic.com/catalog-pack-details?state=04de330d-ad8b-b61c-68e2-ad852c2ca1d4).

> 2. Using the Prometheus Remote Write integration, you can point your Prometheus servers at New Relic to store and visualize your data. You can explore other ways to integrate Prometheus data [in our docs](https://docs.newrelic.com/docs/integrations/prometheus-integrations/get-started/send-prometheus-metric-data-new-relic/).

Reviewer: @RamanaReddy8801 Is this required or optional? Is it a continuation of the previous Prometheus setup instructions? Let's add some information here about why you'd want/need to configure Prometheus remote write and how it's connected to the previous section.

Author: Yes, It is continuation of the above step and  I added some information it will help user to understand.

> ## Restart the New Relic infrastructure agent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Restart the New Relic infrastructure agent [#restart-infra-agent]
```

Before you can start reading your data, use the instructions in our [infrastructure agent docs](/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/manage-your-agent/start-stop-restart-infrastructure-agent/) to restart your infrastructure agent.

```shell
sudo systemctl restart newrelic-infra.service
```

> ## Monitor your application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## View your DCGM metrics in New Relic
```

> You can choose our pre-built dashboard template named `nvidia-dcgm` to monitor your application metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've completed the setup above, you can view your metrics using our pre-built dashboard template named nvidia-dcgm. To access this dashboard:
```

> 1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/)** and click on **+ Add data**.
> 2.  Click on the **Dashboards** tab.
> 3.  In the search box, type `nvidia-dcgm`.
> 4.  When you see our pre-build dashboard, click on it to install it in your account.
> 
> Once your application is integrated by following the above steps, the dashboard should display metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to **[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com/) > + Add data**.
2. Click on the **Dashboards** tab.
3. In the search box, type "nvidia-dcgm".
4. Select it and click **Install**.
```

To instrument the nvidia-dcgm quickstart and to see metrics and alerts, you can also follow our [Nvidia-DCGM quickstart page](https://newrelic.com/instant-observability/nvidia-dcgm) by clicking on the “Install now” button.

Here are some example queries:

**Example:** view the count of the device GPU temperature

```sql
SELECT latest(DCGM_FI_DEV_GPU_TEMP) FROM Metric WHERE metricName LIKE 'DCGM_FI_DEV_GPU_TEMP' TIMESERIES
```

> ## What's next?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's next? [#whats-next]
```
